# Backstory

This project really deserves a backstory. In 2022 I attended my first winter seminar as an older attendee in the Petnica Science Center. This meant that, for the first time, I was starting my cycle of seminars with some prior experience. It was a great feeling, and I was really looking forward to the next week or so I would be spending there. We were learning about computer architecture and the assembly language. Specifically, we were learning about assembly for the Z80 microprocessor, which seemed a little unusual. But there was a catch! The reason we were programming for the Z80 was because we would be running our programs on a REAL Sinclair ZX Spectrum! When I found out, I got really excited. That's exactly my father's first computer. After some practice exercises, and learning the basics of programming in assembly, we got assigned projects. Mine was to recreate the videogame "Tron". I went for a simple approach, with 2 players racing around the screen and trying to cut each other off without running into anything. We had very little time, around 3 days in total to make these projects from nothing. Nevertheless, I managed to pull through - without compromising time spent hanging out! The most exciting part had come. It was time to run our programs on an actual ZX Spectrum. Only some of us had finished our projects, and we still had some trouble actually getting them on the Spectrum, but after everything, that was easy. It was extremely fun to move on from an emulator to the real deal. I was proud. I had proven to myself, for the first time, how fast I could learn something new (I had never seen assembly code before this), and I had a really cool project to show to my dad!

2 years later, I started uploading my projects to the internet, documenting them, and collecting all the parts that got scattered on different devices. My goal was to have all my projects in one place, and with good enough documentation that I could run them anytime without too much trouble. When it was time for this project, I couldn't find my assembly file anywhere! I was devastated. I searched for months, on different devices, backups, clouds, and even asked around in the Petnica Science Center. Nobody had any idea where it could be. The more I searched, the more I had to accept that it was most likely lost somewhere, possibly even deleted on accident. The only thing I managed to find was a binary file (that didn't work) and the working "tape" file that we used to load the program on the real ZX Spectrum. There was hope. When I realized that the assembly file was gone for good, I knew I had to disassemble the "tape" file and recover my lost assembly code. So that's what I did. That's why this project actually spans almost 3 years and has 2 parts - assembly and disassembly. It was tough disassembling the code because I no longer had any clue what I was looking at. But, after finishing the process, nostalgia hit me, and it felt like I was back in 2022 again.
